.TH ZIPPEDEXE 8l "28th April 2015 r1.30
.SH NAME
.B zippedexe
- unpacks zipped e-mail attachments and checks the contents for  \fB.exe\fR
files. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBzippedexe\fR
[\fB-d\fR] |
[\fB-V \fR]
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B zippedexe
is a Bourne shell script which should work equally well on all versions of UNIX,
Linux and Mac OS X.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zippedexe
uses P.L. Daniels' "\fBripmime\fR" to deconstruct an e-mail message and "\fBunzip\fR"
to list the contents of any resulting zipped files. If a \fB.exe\fR file
is found the script returns a zero value (true) and adds 
"\fBX-CityLinux: ZIPPED_EXE\fR" to the message headers.
.LP
The script can be used from the command line as a filter but is designed
to be invoked by \fBprocmail\fR when delivering mail.
.LP
When 
.B procmail
is used with 
.B sendmail
and
.B spamassassin
it is a fairly simple matter to add the header for all users with a recipe
in \fI/etc/procmailrc\fR.  Then by adding a rule to 
.B spamassassin
which increments the \fBspam\fR score appropriately it is possible to leave
dispostion to the same criteria as all other 
.B spam
messages.
.LP
In environments where
.BR plesk ,
.B postfix 
and
.B spamassassin
are used I have been unable to find a way to do this and so I employ a
more complete  
.B .procmailrc
in the virtual mail user's "home" directory.
.LP
Procmail is invoked by modifying .qmail in the same virtual mail users "home"
directory, usually "/var/qmail/mailusers/<mail domain name>/<mail user>/.qmail.
.LP
Note that the .procmailrc recipes provide for delivery of messages to the
postfix mail folder subdirectories (eg Maildir/.Spam{new,cur} by 
using the 
.B postfix
command "\fBdeliverquota\fR" for final delivery as \fIprocmail\fR doesn't
understand this structure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B -d
Set debug mode on. 
The \fB-x\fR option is set within the shell
and each command in the script is echoed to the console.
.TP 5
\fB-V\fR
Print the version details and exit.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/mail/spamassassin/local.cf\fR,
.br
\fI/etc/procmailrc\fR,
.br
\fI/var/qmail/mailnames/<mail domain>/<virtual mail user>/.procmailrc\fR,
.br
\fI/var/qmail/mailnames/<mail domain>/<virtual mail user>/.qmail\fR,
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.ft CW
cat <message_file>|zippedexe 
.ft R
.LP
The message is deconstructed to a temporary directory below \fI/tmp\fR.
The contents of any files with a \fI.zip\fR extension are listed and
if the archive contains \fI.exe\fR files the header \fBX-CityLinux:
ZIPPED_EXE\fR is inserted and the script exits with value \fB0\fR (zero).
.LP
If no 
.I .EXE
is found the exit value is \fB1\fR.
.LP
The message is output to 
.I "STANDARD OUT"
.SH BUGS
The script is quite crude and has very little, if any,  error checking.
The consequences of unexpected input are untested.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIHow-to junk mail with zipped exe attachments\fR.
.SH AUTHOR
Clifford W Fulford, City Linux. Contact fulford@fulford.net or +44 (0)709 229 5385.
.SH HISTORY
